Welcome to the primitive initiative podcast. This podcast was both difficult
and joyous to edit and release. I had recorded this podcast with Dr. Peat and
somehow lost the original higher quality audio file. All I had was the lesser
quality backup which was quite miserable to listen to. Therefore I held off on the
release until I could find a way to improve the audio quality. After hearing
the shocking news that Dr. Peat had passed, I fervently researched to locate
the original audio file and found it in a digital folder I had never checked. It
was a bittersweet moment knowing that I could now release this episode and once
again connect people to Dr. Peat's magic. Anyone who personally talked to, emailed,
or even read Ray's material knows what a truly unique individual Ray was. His
humble, soft-spoken nature, deep thorough insights, subtle humor, childlike
enthusiasm, and selfless commitment to helping people made him loved by so many
as made obvious by the massive response to his passing. I'm very pleased to have
you as our audience to be here and learning in order to help yourself, help
others, and ultimately help transform the world just as Ray did. We love you Ray
and God willing we will meet again. May God receive you an honor and may you be
rewarded for the goodness you achieved and influenced on this planet. To my
friend and mentor Ray, thank you and enjoy the episode.
Hello Dr. Peat this is Ozon. Hi I'm calling for our interview. Is this a
good time? Okay great. Well it's good speaking with you again. I'm glad to have
you once again to ask you some questions that people who follow your work have
for us and some friends and family and we always enjoy your perspective and the
many different aspects that you take with each question and you also cover
their history so it's a very comprehensive education for all of us.
So I just want to start off with asking you how you're doing and what you think
of some of the current events? Oh one of the most interesting things I've seen lately was James Corbett's latest presentation on the website looking at statements of the, for
example, the CEO of Moderna, the vaccine company, several years ago was talking
about the importance of genetically re-engineering the human species and the
weird decision to use nucleic acids in vaccines takes on a very different
meaning when you see that they were talking about re-engineering the human
genome years before producing these vaccines. Another interesting thing was
Byron Bridle's statement is a University virologist, a professor in Canada, who suddenly says that virology people have made some false assumptions and have a very
regrettable situation resulting from assuming that the vaccine material would
stay where you injected it. It's as if virology or vaccineology got their
information about human physiology and immunology by watching television
commercials, seeing cartoons, because that assumption that a vaccine would be
filtered out before it got into the general circulation was just disregarding
so many things that have been known for decades about physiology. It really fits
a lot of the behavior of virologists building up of what I consider a semi-
science, not a pseudoscience. Dr. Bridle himself described himself as having deep
expertise in vaccineology but the information disseminated in the
courses of vaccineology. It's similar to McDonald's University degree in
hamburgerology. It's very isolated and technical and really ignores most of the
interesting contextual situation. They can't all be this ignorant. Do you
really think it's true ignorance or are they just doing this to make it look
like they don't know what they're doing and they just make all these errors
that so happen to lead to depopulation?
I think it's a very powerful mistake in assumptions that they make and so the
people who are deliberately but with some degree of awareness making mistakes,
they have bad intentions obviously but they're based on a lot of ignorance too.
They don't understand fully how really, really bad the mistakes are. Yeah, are you talking about the
gentleman who came out saying we made a big mistake putting the spike protein in
the vaccines. It didn't stay localized and now it's spreading? Okay, that just
blew my mind because you have been talking about how that is the most
dangerous aspect of it with ACE2 and everything since this whole thing
"started" and for someone to say whoops after millions, maybe billions
worldwide have been injected is just insane to me.
As a semi-interested bystander, I realized that for years there had been information on how even not only
andertrans but all sorts of nucleic acid material is constantly being shuttled
around inside the body as part of developmental processes but a friend of
mine wrote a book in the late 1950s called Cold War in Biology. He reviewed at
that time information from a variety of famous biologists who argued that the
existing patterns of genuses and families and phyla within each continent that there
are peculiarities specific for each continent across great varieties of
inheritance, they argued that trans horizontal transmission of genetic
information was the only way to understand this. That was probably
about 20 years before bacteria were discovered to be forming little packets
of DNA which they transmuted through a little tube to other bacteria to spread
their newly acquired genetic information to spread it through their own species
or even different species. So the general idea was being transmuted across very
different types of higher organisms despite the fact that it's now
recognized in bacteria. There's been a great reluctance to see what these
people in the 1950s were talking about that pollen for example can be taken up
by different species even by animals and whenever you're exposed to alien DNA we
have the capacity to integrate a little bit of it into our own systems and even
pass it on. So that information has developed. The FBI, for example, knows
that a sweaty person just bumming their skin against something, the sweat
contains excreted DNA that can identify the person and so it's been put into
practice that you can identify what a person has touched just because they
secreted their own DNA. But following along the same type of research, looking
at animals when they inject foreign DNA, for example, from viruses or exosomes
from other animals, that animal can take up the foreign DNA and package it in
these exosomes which are constructed for the purpose of transferring
information within the organism. They can put the alien DNA into the exosome
system replicating the foreign DNA and secreting these tiny particles, about
hundreds the size of a bacterium, very small virus-sized particle and so it's
known that we can create and multiply foreign DNA and secrete it into our skin
and saliva, tears everything. So basic biology was decades ahead of these
false assumptions. If they had known more about general biology, there wouldn't
have been a possible assumption that injecting toxic DNA could be possible, could
be helpful. Yeah, so let me ask you a question then to do with this. So a lot
of people have been talking about the possibility of the spike protein
shedding and stuff like that, but to my understanding it's a whole different
thing to be injected with something and then to just be exposed to it in the
environment because you have your innate immune system and if your innate immune
system is working properly, it should be rather selective in what it takes up and
deems useful. When you inhale something, it comes up against the cell surface in
your lungs or bronchial membranes or your digestive system. There is a basic
part of the immune system right at the epithelial cells and so those aren't
antibodies in most cases. The intestine and membranes can secrete antibodies but
the contact for example with surface proteins such as the ACE2 enzyme which
is, as far as I know, every type of cell in the body has more or less of this
enzyme on the surface and it being activated it is just one of many ways
that our immune system is put into action but far from the antibody
producing system. I think right near the beginning of the declared
pandemic, someone had demonstrated that the coronavirus is able to activate
cells through other epithelial receptor proteins or surface proteins besides
the ACE2. So that was one of their mistaken assumptions that it only enters
cells with ACE2 but in fact all of our cells contain ACE2 enzyme and what its
function is it is to destroy angiotensin 2 which is the promoter of inflammation.
All sorts of potentially deadly inflammation are produced by an excess or
imbalance of angiotensin 2 and so if you have anything knocking out some of our
ACE2 enzymes you necessarily are going to release and intensify the action of the
pro-inflammatory angiotensin 2 peptide. So do you think it's possible talking
about this, talking about ACE2 and how I believe you were talking about how
I believe the Asian population expresses more ACE2, do you think that this spike
protein is actually what was created in the lab then used on the population in
the virus was used as a cover story to make it look natural, is that a
possibility at well my experience with official virus policy goes back before I
knew enough about it to even believe that it was a remote possibility. A young
guy in 1969 came to visit me because I was teaching an indirectly related class
after the class he came up and said that he had quit his job at the Fort
Dietrich biology lab because he said he believed that they had gone criminally
insane and they had discovered that surface antigens differed
greatly between races and that they were working on a virus to racially
select and kill people with certain immune-related antigens and at that time
those weren't publicly known that was a year or two before the first papers were
published on the racial differences of immune cell surface antigens so I
dismissed it and sort of forgot about it because even though I assumed he was
right I thought it was a nonsense line of work that wouldn't account amount to
anything but that I think really wasn't an intention that he had come across in his work at Fort
Dietrich and if at that time they were looking for ways to eliminate for
example Africans or people with those typically African immune surface antigens
if that was the interest of some faction in the germ warfare community the fact
that recently as Chinese were found to have about 30% more H2 enzyme on the
surface of their cells than Europeans and Americans if there was still that
that intention existing that I had heard about in 1969 that would fit with the
ideas that they were intending to make temporarily disabling intense form of a
cold or an influenza like pneumonia not to kill the population but to inactivate
and inconvenience a huge proportion of the population in China with the
expectation that high prevalence of H2 in Chinese would make them more
susceptible but the actual fact ignored now for over a year by most
virologists the first reaction in the press to the information about the virus
and H2 the first reaction was that people with higher H2 are more susceptible
it was a very current idea that that really was the receptor and that was it
but it turns out that it's the protection against the worst outcome of the
viral infection so the people I think the germ warfare people were
unpleasantly surprised to find that the Chinese in fact were able to recover
faster because of that small genetic difference do you think they actually
there was actually an actual virus or was it just a spike protein and that was
almost like chemical warfare as opposed to biological and they all these
variants and everything are them just trying to put together a picture of a
whole complete virus when in reality they just use the spike protein it's not
found a way to stabilize it and so you can manufacture
exosomes containing the particle that you want and normally exosomes are except in
the case of cancer-emitted exosomes which spread cancer in almost all
normal situations exosomes are constructive on the reparities but if
you process cells or organisms to package a particular toxic nucleic acid and
protein so that it forms exosomes then you have the spreadable webinized form of
that just spraying out the pure DNA massively some of it would get taken up
but if it's packaged in the exosome that is the type that organisms usually take
up and integrate because that's our own system of handling transmission of
nucleic acid I see so I thought about this question that I'm about to ask you
and the more I thought about it the more complex it started to get in my head but
so would the difference between a viruses and an exosome be that
exosomes are endogenous whereas viruses are the exosomes of other organisms
if you ask someone how did viruses evolve when they can't exist outside of
a complex higher organism obviously you have to have higher organisms first and
then the appearance of a virus will come as soon as exosomes exit from the
organism that has been making and using them a model of excreted genetic
information that can be inhaled and followed by different organisms but any
of the submicron sized exosomes can float around in the air as virus like
particles question of how did viruses come to exist I think there's no answer
other than that they are packaged and excreted exosome like material of other organisms
okay yeah that makes sense yeah I just kept thinking I'm like okay what's the
difference between a viruses and an exosome and it just kind of
seems like semantics so all right well let's see here have you heard of the
phenomenon of comets or like cosmic phenomenon causing disease on earth on
organisms on the planet when certain either heavy metal laden or radiation
laden comets or something pass above the earth there's some documented historical
that some books that I've read that say that people have this belief that it
could spread disease have you ever looked into that fairly mainstream biology I
think the DNA molecule I think proposed earth was out of space floating down to
the earth interesting so so it could be somewhat damaging to go watch a meteor
shower okay I guess it depends on how close it is to the earth and how long it
takes to get here huh okay I have a very interesting question here and I want to
have your take on it what do you think about deja vu do you think there's some
deep biochemical explanation to it or is it something simple
that makes you wonder how it is actually that your brain is relating to the
future ever since the first very intense experience of that sort I've had the
feeling that we are able to project or calculate or sense things that are
several seconds in the future when you're in an extremely alert state
watching people for example in the interview or conversation the more alert
you are the farther ahead you can sense the interaction and know how a person is
going to respond to a question and then what kind of response that response will
elicit and so on yeah it's good there's an extremely high probability that we
have knowledge extending a few seconds into the future and then a lower
probability the farther into the future you go a good athlete like a gymnast has
to have that very concrete feeling of how the future is going to turn out in
the next couple of seconds so that they can be there when when that in the right
posture and ready to meet the future as it arrives yeah that visualization is
pretty powerful light I know a lot of people use visually this visualization
for achieving their goals so seems like there's some common sense and yeah I've
had things as simple as standing at the beach and having a boat go by and the
way that the tree bends or the wind blows it's I feel like I've seen that exact
scene before it's so odd such a peculiar feeling it kind of leads me into my next
topic when I was a child it didn't happen much but I definitely remember
one specific instance of an out-of-body experience where I found myself whatever
that is whether it's my soul or what I really am on the ceiling staring down at
myself sleeping on the bed and I didn't know what I was looking at it just
looked like my body but I felt like my definition of self was on the ceiling
and then I voluntarily decided it was time to go back and went back in my body
and woke up and remembered the whole experience do you have any opinions or
outlooks on that the way you hold yourself together it is partly theoretical
the way you've learned from your own experiences and from the expectations
you see other people having of you you learn to think of yourself as separate
individual located maybe somewhere in the middle of your head but as you relax
and let go of those words perspectives and expectations you can take a
different point of view in the dream it is most noticeable in a vivid dream
during the night but a similar thing can be when you relax and close your eyes
very often there will be images passing by that you don't feel responsible for
but you can watch and the sense of a difference between generating those
images and you as a watcher during a nighttime dream you can be talking to
someone and have them doing intelligent complex things thinking up responses to
what you say and then you can respond to something they said as if you had never
thought of it or were completely unaware of it to the extent that they can say
something that you remember when you wake up and go to a dictionary or in a
cyclotedia to find out what they had said so to be you in a dream can feel
yourself as a separate observer from knowledge obviously in some sense part
of you because it spoke to you during your dream it's something that part of
you intended but your ordinary self wasn't aware that you knew that and so
you had to look it up to check that it made sense and that facts that were full
of potential information and our perspective is what is making us feel
that were at a particular point in time and space and the deja vu comes when
our fewer perspective gets slightly out of phase with the actual knowledge that
our organism is working with interesting interesting that's okay so it's to me it
sounds like tapping into some collective consciousness where you're removing your
ego and you're going into the the sea of organisms that are around you you're
just tapping into their knowledge base and you could even unconsciously or
subconsciously speak almost like a reflex to their knowledge base without a
even knowing what you're talking what you're saying until the next day when
you're conscious of what you said the previous day if that makes sense
even if the other person didn't intend to give you unique knowledge the fact
that you're momentarily looking at the world from the way they see it as you
formulate your understanding of what they have said to you you sense the
otherness of it and that process can deliver valid information that you didn't
didn't receive deliberately but indirectly in putting together what they
said and how they said so do you do this is kind of a strange question I guess and
it's odd for me to expect you to answer it but do you think then these
experiences are real or are they psychological phenomena like when I was
observing myself from the from the ceiling of my bedroom everything seemed
to be in place sometimes in dreams you'll have something odd like an
alligator in your room so you'll know it's like whoa it's weird but it was
almost as if it what I was there at that moment so was my brain playing tricks on
me or was there did I leave my body very interesting so so do you think then our
bodies are just kind of vessels that are illusionary we're just confined by them
but at least in theory we could somehow learn to let go of it
dropping off to sleep having a violent lurch of your whole body yeah I think
what happens is that your reference point your felt image of your body has
started floating off doing doing other things and when it suddenly realizes if
the body is lying and asleep immediately returns to where it should be aligned
with the body but you float it off and so your alignment of where you feel you
are and where the body actually is they're in different places and the
difference between where your body really is and where you feel it is it
makes a jerk as you realize your picture of yourself with the actual self yeah
that's a goofy feeling I usually used to get that when I'd sense that I was
falling and then the falling would have no end until I jerked out of that
yeah in falling you're not connected to the physical body when you hook up to
the body your sense of orientation of where your legs and arms and torso and
head are there's a discrepancy in reconnecting the body has to suddenly
change its orientation of the parts to each other yeah yeah that that one
vision I had as a child I must have been oh six years old changed my whole view
of the world after that point I my fear of death was a lot less because I kind
of perceived what I had perceived that night in bed to be what death might feel
like where I still felt like myself but I wasn't confined into my body it was it
was definitely life-changing and I still remember it like it was yesterday so
going kind of off visions and all of this stuff that we're talking about
another thing that I noticed that I talked to some friends about is when I
lay on the grass and I'm looking at the sky especially without my glasses I
just see tons of little sparkling little lights that are dancing and there's just
thousands of them but it seems to be most intense when there's UV light
presence so you know staring into a blue sky it what are we seeing there
if you doing that if you had a bright light beings one past your field of
creation you could see the blood vessels on the surface of your retina and you
could see that those points of light our internal activation of nerves that have
particular location on the retina relative to those blood vessels but
experiments have put a very tiny slide projector built into a contact lens so
that the projector and everything would float on your cornea and be immobilized
as far as your retina was concerned and if you project a particular pattern
from a tiny slide in that projector you see the image vividly but the nerves get
tired in just a few seconds and the image disappears and then after being
gone for a while it comes back in waves so you can see that the individual nerves
that let you see me the pattern have been fatigued but then recover and the
process of recovering sensitivity involves backward transmission down your
optic nerve from your brain to your retina rather than the intake current
from your retina to your brain the renewal process it is a projection from
your brain out to the retina and you can demonstrate that people with the little
slide protector would put a letter or a number in a linear pattern with scribbles
meaningless scribbles all around it and in the first awareness they would see
all of the scribbles in the letters and numbers those would fade out and then
the next phase when there was renewal of the retina only the letters and numbers
that were meaningful would come back interesting so the brain is stimulating
the nerves to go seek out what it wants it to right well and that process is
always going on the excitation of the retina from inside and as you're
watching against the sky that sparkly sort of like luminous dust activity for
retina if you direct your attention to individual planes you can deliberately
illuminate them instead of just popping on and off like powdered diamond
particles or something catching light intermittently you can catch one of them
mentally and intends to hold it and when you practice that for a while you find
that suddenly that that tiny bit of sparkly dust will kind of explode in a
blue point of light probably ten or a hundred times bigger than the points
were and then it will fade out and you shift your attention over and over and
instead of the next time instead of just being a little explosion of light you'll
get a needle shape of light as you keep focusing your attention on it so it isn't
just a passive movement from your brain to your end of something you learned in
the past but you can intend the current of excitation and renewal so that you
can deliberately change those sparks of light interesting yeah I I always observe
these things because I try to get full spectrum light because I always wear
glasses I used to wear contacts but then I found out about certain wavelengths of
blue in full spectrum light that helped to revert or I don't know about reverse
but halt myopia and I have pretty serious myopia so I was hoping that full
spectrum light would help do you think that doing that type of stuff is
dangerous or I mean obviously not staring into the Sun but just I feel
like it's unnatural to have contacts or glasses in front of your eyes blocking
wavelengths of light all the time
myopia you can create myopia in a chicken or a cat for example by keeping them in
the dark the absence of light during your growing years not getting enough
bright light shifts the balance from dopamine to serotonin and that tends to
elongate the eyeball and so experimentally on the animals people have
used anti serotonergic drugs to stop myopia progression I see okay have you
heard about so so it's not just specific wavelengths of light it's just light
all together I mean I'm guessing you don't want bright blue LEDs but if he
has full spectrum light even in your house that would help right what so what
do you think about blackout curtains because I get very bothered by even a
little bit of light in my bedroom is that stressful to the organism or is
that fine when you're sleeping okay all right and for example I know my mom can't
handle it she starts getting panic attacks in a completely dark room so
it's it's amazing how different we are but so speaking of eyes iridology do you
think there is some basis to iridology diagnosing things through looking at the
eyes I'm sure there are some things but iridology goes seems a step further
where it correlates certain regions of the eye with certain organs and like the
lymphatic system and stuff like that no okay all right well I just kind of wanted
to ask you a couple food oriented questions because I've noticed myself
that and in my friends we were talking unless you're an experienced farmer or
someone who hunts and you're looking at livers all the time I'm not quite sure
what to look for in a good liver for example I got a liver about a month back
that looked quite goofy even though it came from a really good reputable 100%
grass-fed farm it was lightly colored and it had little off colored specs in
there and I don't know tasted a little different what do you look for in a
liver it should be a nice even color from maroon to very dark the older the
animal is the darker it will be okay so calf liver is a bright reddish color and
beef liver it is very dark purplish
approaching black and the older it gets the more fibrous it is and the sicker the
animal is more fight fibrosis cirrhosis makes makes the liver have very tough
and hard to cut the once you get the membrane off the outside the inside
should be very credible no no tough resistance not many stringy fibers very
tender and the pale spots that's a fatty liver mmm so I felt very off-put when I
was eating it it tasted different it tasted almost fishy as opposed to what
I'm used to so I actually just threw it away I felt bad but yeah so that's good
to know because it looked a lot different than that nice even purple
color that I'm used to but I figured they wouldn't put it in there unless you
checked it but no meat department people have very little idea of what they're
doing it should be frozen right at slaughter and supermarket meat
departments often leave it in their meat case just refrigerated for days and days
and deteriorates the chest itself well and the famous bad taste of liver is
from prolonged storage in Mexico where few places had refrigeration until just
recently but the meat markets would slaughter maybe once a week and they
would only sell the liver on the day of slaughter or the day after and so
restaurants would only serve liver on the slaughter day or it's a day
following and it was always a completely different experience to have Mexican
restaurant liver to American restaurant liver and once I was so impressed by how
good the liver was I asked to have it again and so the owner of the restaurant
put it in the refrigerator and a week later it tasted just like American
restaurant liver almost disgust but it still kind of has that gamey flavor even
when it's fresh right it or no well that's concerning it sounds like I've
never had fresh liver before oh boy yeah I mean I don't mind the taste of liver
but well culturally I'm Turkish and my mom whenever she made liver when I was
growing up I've never seen anyone in Turkey leave it partially raw or pink at
all inside they always cook it to the point where it's caramelized on the
outside and I'm wondering if they used to do that to prevent like a overload of
vitamin A or something like that do you think overcooking it like that is a good
idea or there's any wisdom to that I see yeah maybe they're doing it because it's
not fresh and they don't want to taste it okay so a couple questions about a
buffering acid so I a lot of the fruit juice around here even the fruit itself
is quite acidic and usually picked when it's not very ripe I'm sure you're all
too familiar with that and I'm wondering if it's a safe thing to do to buffer it
with baking soda or if we're or if that's causing like too much like sodium
citrate or something like that to form that would be irritating
have a steady intake of a lot of it the citrate that we produce in our mitochondria
is one thing but when you get a high concentration coming in as food that has
very different sort of signaling effects that tend to disrupt your whole system
and it becomes more palatable to neutralize a little bit with the baking
soda and the baking soda is actually beneficial okay so so buffering like
orange and tart orange juice with baking soda is is fine even it gives it kind of
an effervescent taste but it's not harmful okay I was I was worried that it
was forming some sort of salts that would be irritating to the stomach or
something so then maybe mixing it with milk like orange and milk or I like grape
and milk together that would also kind of help buffer it right yeah okay and as
far as aspirin goes I find it a lot easier on my esophagus when I mix that
with baking soda - what is that creating exactly what kind of chemical reaction
is happening there because it all it tastes different and it fizzes so it
releases of carbon dioxide from the baking soda and so you have sodium
acetyl salicylate and probably the acetate starts breaking down when you
raise the pH for the baking soda so you're probably getting a little bit of
sodium salicylate along with the acetyl salicylic acid does that change its
physiological mechanisms like the way that it works on the body or is that
still fine actually better oh okay the salicylic acid doesn't have the effect
on the platelets that the acetyl salicylate has radical acetyl radical
seems to be the main thing that knocks out platelet function and prevents
clotting so you can count on that if you are taking pure sodium salicylate but
you still get the whole range of other benefits anti-inflammatory
analgesic anti-stress effects pro metabolic effect so I would almost say
that for convenience Alka seltzer would be good but I think Alka seltzer has
citric acid in it okay I see yeah well shoot it would have been
nice if it didn't have that nice and convenient okay well I just want to
remind people that they're listening to the primitive initiative podcast and I
have dr. repeat here with me again for our I think third episode I'm so happy
that you joined me again and if you guys want his newsletters you can go to Ray
Peat's newsletter newsletter newsletters newsletter singular right
repeat letter okay so raypats with an S newsletter@gmail.com and then you
can also visit his website raypeat.com for his articles and some more
information I believe his books and artwork okay so a friend of mine wanted
me to ask why babies get cradle cap his has had cradle caps I believe for a year
now since since it was born and it seems like a very healthy baby but that
cradle cap just has never gone away do you know anything about that some people
think that if it isn't breastfed especially the formula isn't close enough
to its actual needs but sometimes the mother's breast milk can lack the right
ratio of nutrients and biotin is the main suspect biotin deficiency that
vitamin D deficiency can affect the skin too and so making sure that if the
mother's breastfeeding that she has her vitamin D checked and each of the
vitamin D rich diet getting plenty of biotin milk and eggs are good source
milk eggs cheese are reliable sources of biotin I see okay I know for a matter of
fact that the the baby has been breastfed since it was born so it must
be something with the breast milk then I know she craves sweets a lot so it might
be maybe she's not getting enough of the cofactors to deal with how much sugar
she's eating it could possibly be that
okay I see yeah there's a question here about air purifiers and it was asking
there's that they have a reusable air filter that uses the charges particles
in the air so it uses negative ions maybe even positive I'm not sure and it
traps the particles in these reusable filters but when that's happening and
it's charging these particles and they're lifted off into the air and we
breed those is that damaging so when things are getting charged in the air
negatively charged particles the oxygen atoms seem to be where the negative
charge locate and all of the research that I've seen shows very good effects
from the negatively ionized air and a group of six or seven publications
especially from Poland argues that what it's doing the lungs normally are the
main source of detoxification of serotonin transported to the lungs by
the platelets from the intestine for most of it in the body is produced and
these Polish researchers have presented quite a bit of evidence that the enzyme
in the lung that inactivates the serotonin dump from the platelets the
enzyme is activated by the donation of an electron from ionized oxygen inhaled
so it's in effect increasing the lungs ability to knock out the circulating
stress related serotonin okay so if there's let's say there's pollutants in
the air of a home like a lot of dust or mold or something would it be helping
that situation or making it worse or neither help to coagulate and settle the
particles so that's how some of the air cleaners are working getting getting the
particles out of the air is itself a big help to reduce inflammation so during
that time though somebody could theoretically be breathing in those
particles and would that hinder their lungs ability to deal with those since
they have this charge to them now or is that not really
and I know that you're a fan of negative ion generators and at least good ones
that don't have ozone production but my understanding is that a lot of these
electronics in people's homes which people have more and more of produce
positive ions is that accurate
so I guess you would need a certain concentration just to neutralize that
and then in order to have a net gain or to have more for you to utilize you would
have to have plenty of negative ions in the air or you just got to decrease the
amount of electronics that you have right okay or just go out into a
waterfall right okay another food question for you here so I mean I don't
recommend eating processed foods that are you know highly different than what
they are in nature but it it says high oleic oils are they safer I think I
think I know the answer to this but but if an oil if a poofa says high oleic
before it so high oleic safflower oil and it's in a chips or something is that
any safer the higher the oleic acid things lower the poofas will be olive
oil as I think about 70% monounsaturated or oleic and 8 to 12% of poofa and some
saturated fat so the higher the oleic just means that the toxic poofas will be lower the more monounsaturated fats you have but it's still
not as safe as butter or coconut oil or no not by a long way right right and and
even though olive oil has oleic acid it's also has a lot of polyphenols and
more protective things packaged by nature as opposed to something that's
been refined and tampered with to have high oleic yeah okay that makes sense so
that I got another question that I thought was interesting so if poofas are
used in processed foods or any foods and they're already oxidized and they're
damaged and unstable do they continue doing damage once they go into the body
so how are they able to continue doing damage if they've already been so
oxidized how do they still have the potential to even oxidize
unsaturated whether they're slightly spoiled before you eat them or just the
process happening in your blood because your blood has free atom atoms of
especially iron a little bit of copper and reducing agents such as escorbic
acid and glutathione combine that with PUFA oxidizing metals activated by the
reducing molecules attack and quickly degrades the polyunsaturated fats and
the process of atherosclerosis is initiated by these toxic inflammation
promoting a breakdown products of PUFA or even the fresh PUFA it is start
starting the inflammatory process in your lining of the blood vessels that
causes quite blood cells to invade and the cholesterol is produced as a defense
the cholesterol is combined in an ester with the polyunsaturated fats and so the
medical industry has tried to put the blame on cholesterol that whole mistaken
doctrine started simultaneously with the surge to market polyunsaturated oils as
food substance 1950 but the process of atherosclerosis and dementia and all of
the degenerative processes involve the attempt of the body to subdue the
inflammation caused by the oxidation of PUFA by combining cholesterol with the
PUFA and although in a demanded brain or in the hardening arteries of an aging
person although the cholesterol increases that the free cholesterol
drastically decreases so the available cholesterol in a demanded brain is very
deficient while the cholesterol locked up in the toxic inactive form of an ester
of PUFA increases okay so so then consuming more cholesterol for somebody
who's demented or has Alzheimer's would be beneficial right or probably yeah things
that regulate the enzymes has it helped to free up the cholesterol and eventually
to degrade the the toxic PUFA I think those are the most important to work on
and meanwhile to reduce the harmful effects produced by the PUFA such as
prostaglandins promote inflammation in proportion to the amount of PUFA in the
tissue and aspirin for example by blocking prostaglandin production helps
to retard or prevent neurodegenerative diseases like dementia and Parkinson's I
see and so you would use vitamin E then to kind of help stabilize the damage
you've done in the past but vitamin E doesn't necessarily make it safe to keep
eating PUFA right well okay so I see that marketed a lot it's like oh you can
have your french fries at whatever restaurant you want as long as you got
your bottle of vitamin E doesn't sound like an option well it's an option but
not one you might want to go with so I don't remember I don't want to put words
in your mouth but methylene blue seemed to have some positive effects on people
with dementia and Alzheimer's so how is that exactly working is that just like
helping their metabolism and their cells function almost forcing their cells to
function the way that they should
okay so it's almost kind of like what thyroid would do instead of tinkering
with someone's diet or this that trying to replenish their own ability to have
proper hormone signaling you could just help give them thyroid to restructure
the body right yeah okay so that makes sense so okay so along those lines of
healing somebody especially because the sicker they are the usually the less
willpower they have and maybe the less time you have to help them live would
liposuction be an option for someone who's very obese and just has so much
stores of adipose tissue that they would be damaging to lose or do you think
that's just no no way
to move very much fat I think that the change in your hormones and inflammatory
signals I think it's probably unbalanced better to keep the fat and change the
way you're living to help your liver detoxifies a fat as it circulates
through the liver to lose urinate attachment and sulfate attachment to the
toxic fats that the liver can discriminate and detoxifies those fats
while leaving the safe saturated fats relatively alone so that if you keep
your liver energized and getting adequate sugar and glycogen the liver
can keep those detoxifying lose urination and and sulfation processes
going so you can excrete fat safely okay so so then like something like gastric
bypass or something would be quite dangerous then because of how fast
you're dropping that weight your body might not be able to keep up right okay
so then if somebody had a lot of weight to lose you would suggest just first
obviously taking care of your diet making sure you're avoiding poofa and
stuff like that but would weight training be a good part of that would
that help to more safely so your glycogen stores could still be there and your
body would still burn some fat is that would that be at rest when would it be
burning the poofa even if there's glycogen there okay so it's doing a
little bit of both then okay a little bit I think probably the most important thing for most people is to keep the ratio of calcium to phosphate in your diet high and to keep an adequate amount of vitamin D
because when the calcium is low relative to phosphate your parathyroid hormone
becomes overactive and the vitamin D even is turned into harmful form of so
called active vitamin D 125 dihydroxy vitamin D is what they call the active
form but it's actually the form that weakens your bones rather than building
them and goes with a relatively high intake of phosphate to calcium in your
diet and the calcium will suppress the parathyroid hormone excess and
ferrothyroid hormone it is effectively anti thyroid it box down mitochondrial
oxidative metabolism slows the whole process and it is very central to
developing obesity I see a friend of mine who has issues with oxalates and kidney
stones and stuff mentioned something about not taking vitamin D do you know
of any conflicting processes in the body where you wouldn't want to take vitamin
D if you have oxalate problems is that probably because they're not eating
enough calcium is that why they might be having issues with it
okay so they're getting these kidney stones oxalic acid stones because they
don't have a buffer and when they take vitamin D is that enhancing their
absorption of the calcium how is that working like why would that have a bad
effect on someone with oxalates
in your diet is supported by that kind of vitamin D it's the essential thing
and certain amount of sugar acts like vitamin D in helping to assimilate
calcium and strengthen bones for example interesting okay it's good to know so I
have an interesting question for you and I titled this question the need for
disease so this might sound weird but when a body enters a diseased state is
its perception that it has to enter that state for example when someone gets
cancer there's various reasons why they could get that but the body also chooses
to go that route or does it not have a choice so is it seeing it's better
suited to survive if it has these cells that behave cancerously or like any other
adaptation that the body might go through that we call disease do you does
that make sense
to stabilize the system interesting so he argued in several instances not to
remove melanoma tumors for example because removing one often causes more
of them to pop up Wow so the body is intelligently gauging things and it does
what it perceives to be appropriate yeah but you can help the process along by
increasing your metabolic rate your ability to produce and maintain carbon
dioxide over lactic acid production lactate produced by stress or by cancer
becomes a cancer promoter and so your metabolism ultimately that the kind of
life you choose can affect the ability to produce carbon dioxide definitely
avoiding the anti respiratory things such as PUFA and getting a balance of
calcium to phosphate things that activate carbon dioxide metabolism those the high
CO2 is the Japanese are studying it as a direct application to inhibit cancer
growth for example in the mouth getting the CO2 high enough inhibits growth
reduces inflammation and give us the healthy tissue a chance there's a book
on the internet the history of using carbonic acid medically it has a section
on going back more than 200 years treating cancer with direct application
of carbon dioxide gas and you've probably heard about the Italian who
cancer with baking soda simoncini is that his name simoncini or no I'm not
sure that he knows what's happening but when you take in baking soda your body
very quickly secretes the sodium in your urine and the cells that are deficient in
carbon dioxide will convert the bicarbonate to gaseous carbon dioxide
and acidify themselves which turns off the cancer metabolism so historically
was very common to use the gas use for directly applied to the tumor it would
heal an open ulcer for example but taking the baking soda the bicarbonate
becomes the effective gaseous carbon dioxide inside the cells I see the more
I read your work and the people that you refer to the more it seems like the
more you are able to restructure the body into its original identity I guess
for lack of a better term the more it just easily gets rid of disease and
anything that causes it to be leaning too far to one side of its physiology
so if you look at the fetal state a very high carbon dioxide concentration very low oxygen light like it's similar to living at about 15,000 feet altitude
may be higher as far as the balance between CO2 and oxygen go and the hyperoxia effect that we experience as soon as we're born
changes the way wounds heal for example I think we're species designed to live in
the carboniferous period when the atmosphere was full of CO2 and I think we would probably live hundreds of years if we were born into an environment with a few percent CO2 and not so much oxygen
or like you said to just have your diet and treat your body correctly so your body keeps producing the right amount of CO2 but you're saying you could even
so even if your metabolism is good and your thyroid function is good you could still benefit from even more CO2
I know you're a fan of you know people engaging their health through easily accessible ways like pulse and temp and things like that but there's something that I've been hearing of
Dr. Morcola talks about it's called the phase angle and he says that it's a measurement of the bio impedance of your body and reflects cellular membrane integrity
now I know how you feel about the cellular membrane but what do you think about this phase angle test supposedly Dr. Cowen also talks about how it helps to kind of measure maybe the structured state of the cell
have you ever heard of this? What was phase angle did you say? Yeah, phase angle. Have you ever heard of that? I don't know what it means by phase. Is using an alternating current or what for the measurements?
Yeah I would have to get a little more information on it maybe I can just email you about it we can talk about it later after you've looked into it but it's something that I thought maybe you'd be interested in since I know you're also a fan of Gilbert Ling's work
and how you know having that structured water inside of the cell or the body's ability to do that is pretty important so yeah the high metabolizing organism has it's intrinsic direct current polarity more intense the higher your metabolism is oxidatively
but while the polarity increases the resistance decreases it becomes a better conductor so thinking of the membrane doesn't work at all with the direct current at measurements.
Okay I see it here it I'm trying to read to kind of give you a better understanding of what this test is and I'm trying to understand it better myself but it says it's the device itself is a powerful tool to help you determine your objective hydration status so I'm guessing it is measuring some sort of electrolyte.
I'm not sure I'll send you the I'll send you an email of it it was just something I thought of on the spot and decided I should ask you about it.
So I had sent you in the email Stefan Lanka's work and I'm I know you've been talking to Patrick Timponi and I'm sure people have been emailing you about Dr. Cowan and Kauffman's work about the existence or non existence of the virus but they referred to Stefan Lanka who won a case in Germany I believe because he basically said if anybody could produce proof that the measles virus exists that he'd give them a certain sum of money and he got defeated once but then came back and displayed his case and
he won and he did a new experiment that I sent you the email of I couldn't find the actual study but he's saying that he treated the cells in the same way that virologists would to help isolate or show that the virus is pathogenic or causes disease and he basically showed the same pictures that an infected cell would releasing particles and cytotoxic effects essentially.
Irritation such as electrical stimulation will activate the process of excess on formation and depending on what kind of cellular testing the wrong kind of excess will be toxic.
Okay it just seems like after a test like that that it's it's quite unreliable to depend on these people to tell us what is a virus meaning a poison and what isn't if they can induce this poisoning of the cell just by the way they treat the cell by starving it and exposing it to toxic antibiotics.
Yeah I think there's no problem at all once you see that viruses probably are just exosomes early in exosomes and there's no question you can do many things to a cell or an organism to make it emit.
Exosomes and if they are taken up by the right cell they're going to be harmful rather than beneficial.
Sure so when you say taken up by the right cell that still depends on the health of the body that's being exposed to that right because it can be selective in what it takes up it it doesn't necessarily get flooded and have no option right.
Yeah in the properly functioning organism when one organ or tissue is under stress it emits exosomes that can be taken up by the bone marrow and so their surface is something that's recognized by the bone marrow but the content
it indicates to the bone marrow cells what tissue is in trouble and so the bone marrow then produces a new type of cell and puts precursor cells into the circulation that will seek out the damaged tissue or organ and
function as a replacement part in effect and also there are repair patches sent out as exosomes that will create malfunctioning cells but the interaction between an organ and the bone marrow can actually create replacement stem cells in effect.
Okay I see that's a good explanation I think in our first interview we were talking about the the gem mules that was it Darwin that was talking about the gem mule?
Yeah I found that very interesting and we talked about the third circulatory system that was pretty mind-blowing to look into after our conversation I really like that.
Yeah did you find some of the old North Korean articles?
Well there's a forum that's named after you and there's a lot of members there who directed us to certain articles I don't know if I could find the one that you specifically referred to I might have to email you about that but I did see one that referred to that third circulatory system and I don't remember exactly it was when we did our first interview but I did read up on that.
In the early 70s a Chinese acupuncturist brought with him this little pamphlet by the North Korean that presented pretty good evidence showing the lymph-like vessels containing exosomes before exosomes were even named.
Yeah so do you think that an acupuncture it's basically helping the body to communicate with itself if there's blocked flow of whatever it is maybe that circulatory system?
Yeah that was the intention of the research and there has been a little confirmation of that that you can somewhat select the organ being repaired by some of the traditional acupuncture pathways.
I see okay before I let you go I want to ask you a couple personal questions if that's okay they're not too personal so don't be worried I kind of wanted to know if you do anything to prepare for your interviews I mean I hear a lot of people they'll be like oh I always have my coffee or I take this neutral pick or something like that or I something or the other do you do anything or do you just kind of go right into it?
Oh no a big cup of orange juice and some coffee.
Okay so you do do some you do prepare for your interviews in some way or another.
Okay I see that's probably a good idea I've learned to just have a cup of water with me or else my throat starts to hurt from all this talking so how about your parents I've heard you refer to some of the textbooks that they used to have that used to read up on.
I believe did you say there was like a encyclopedias and stuff like that but I'm wondering about other aspects like your upbringing and their influence on you or their interests like how do you think they shaped you to be the person that you are or did they?
Oh just watching how they functioned was a dream of my childhood they both worked at home my mother was a photographer and my father a sign painter and so I got to work got to watch them at work right for my earliest years.
And so the idea of work and daily life were never separated in my awareness.
Hmm I see okay so so maybe that's how you were so relatable because you know people I remember Danny and I were talking Danny Roddy and he was talking about how one of your objectives was to make medicine and healing available to low socio-economic people and I think that's so good.
I think that's so important because it seems like in today's world like you either have to be convinced that you have to have health care or health insurance of some sort because attaining health is so expensive or you go the other route where people are marketing everything to you left and right and people are kind of stuck between the two expensive alternatives where someone like you is encouraging the use of things cheap things like aspirin and good food.
So yeah my mother and grandmother were both oriented that way to both to help anyone who needed it but to look for the actual beneficial things rather than crazy surgical treatments for example.
Sure yeah I mean the less invasive and as long as it's effective why not you know it's it's amazing to me how people will commit to a surgery after just one doctor visit when they haven't even explored less intense healing methods that's it just seems kind of logical but I guess we're being marketed to right left and right.
So one last thing this isn't necessarily about your upbringing but you had referred to Eugene all in zinc in a previous podcast and I've ever since then I've been really curious if you've experimented with it if you think it's a good temporary solution that somebody could do themselves because we don't know how long supply chains are going to last and a lot of people want to get off grid and be more self sustaining so I think fillings unfortunately are going to be an aspect that people might need.
Do you think having a store of Eugene all in zinc paste and using that yourself would be intelligent there.
You can all in zinc oxide are very easy to use and dentists commonly use it as a temporary filling for kids whose baby teeth are only going to last maybe a year at most a couple years after they get a filling.
It's crazy to X-ray them and the whole dental thing where you could just scrape off the brown material and just poke in some of the so-called temporary filling.
But if it isn't on a biting surface it will easily last a year and it is anesthetic at the same time so it prevents pain from the decay, stops the decay and lasts long enough for the baby tooth to fall out.
And for someone who can't afford to pay over $100 to have a filling they can themselves scrape off the dead material and fill it even if they have to do it twice a year it will stop the decay and prevent the pain.
Just to be clear it's okay for adults too right?
Yeah I've experimented with it and their surreal cements require more dexterity and familiarity with the material but you can make a longer lasting, I think it's called chloroxy.
Cements or sorrel cements with a chloride and an oxide combined it just takes familiarity and dexterity to handle it in a way to get it in place in the tooth.
But then if it's properly done it becomes a very long lasting safe filling.
That's good to know. I mean even if somebody had the money like personally I see a lot of the other filling options they seem really toxic I mean I haven't been able to find one that doesn't have something toxic in it and it seems like eugenol and zinc is pretty safe.
I mean those two compounds.
Oh very safe, yeah. And there's a new technique of I think it's designed especially for low income people where you just paint on the it's a fluoride compound.
Oh the SDF silver diamine quality. Silver. And the silver becomes a disinfectant and apparently the fluoride helps to drain it up with the calcified tooth material and it forms a black anti decay material.
Yeah I was thinking about getting some of that just in case if something happened and I couldn't get access to a dentist or something but just to be clear for listeners the silver diamine fluoride and correct me if I'm wrong Dr. Peat, it is not a filling, it's just to stop the decay, right?
Yeah so it doesn't do anything structurally it doesn't it doesn't fix your teeth structurally that that would be more maybe the eugenol and zinc but even then Dr. Peat I think it's safer to do on a non or not safer but more effective to do it on a non chewing surface.
The chewing surface does slowly wear away the eugenol and zinc filling but with a sorrel cement eugenol it's almost as hard as porcelain.
Okay, I see. Okay. All right, well, Dr. Peat, thank you so much for your time. And we got a lot of questions answered a lot of different topics covered here I try to find questions and encourage others to ask questions that I haven't heard you cover
before at least or at least not in detail so that we can get some fresh material for people out there and there's so many questions that people have for you and I like to at least tap into some of it so once again thank you so much for your time and until next time.
Okay, thank you. Great questions. Great, you have a good night, Dr. Peat.
If you'd like to find out ways to support us, please head on over to primitive initiative.com